#concept

Long ago, [[Surface]] world was embroiled in conflict and sweeping changes in technology and peoples way of life. Two races lived on the surface, [[Humans and Beastfolk]]. The two had deep antipathy for each other and waged war constantly. At the time flying machines were improving, there was a great discovery made. Behind the clouds there was a floating island. The people who landed on this tranquil place named it "[[Island of Laputa|Laputa]]" Soon word spread of the fertile fields, pure air, and hidden treasure buried in the underground tombs of the island. Beast and Man alike [[Colonists|immigrated]] there on great flying blimps, in search of a better life. At first, there was conflict. Mining companies set up by the surface kingdom divided people into their own frontier towns, eager to lap up the island's resources before anyone else could. People built up their houses and learned to live off of supply shipments from the ground. That was all before the day the storm struck.

Winds rushed around the island of Laputa, which cast such violent clouds that no living soul could enter or exit it. The winds blew the island off course, not to be seen again in 7 years. In that time the towns had to rely on their networks to stay afloat. Many died in the first months, but many more lived, and had children, making meager lives out of what they had and what they could forage, completely disconnected from the outside world. During that tine of hardship there was a [[Laputa's Former King|king of Laputa]]. He was simply a farmer, but he provided for the people, and through his influence, brought them together.  He was king in name only but the villagers liked him enough that they bestowed him the title. Ruling over the island he brought beast and man to work together.
7 years after that great storm, the island of Laputa was spotted over the ocean. Finally, the villagers had contact with the outside world again. The industrial age came swiftly back to Laputa, and with that, the exploitation of her resources once again. Laputa became an important hub for trade and the treasure hunting industry exploded. The farmer king, suddenly amass with wealth, built a modern city to be the island's capital. It was during this time that he had a son, and had sent him off at an early age to be educated at the finest academies on the surface. To protect the young prince, he sent his two most trusted bodyguards, friends he had met on the island. During this golden age in Laputan history, life was good and the king was beloved.
That era would not last forever, though. The king fell ill from a surface virus, and quickly deteriorated. His wife succumbed too, and as as they laid on their deathbeds the writing was on the wall for Laputa's era of kings. But there was no collapse. Individual towns ruled themselves, so had only to sink into isolation as they once had. Though most mourned for the passing king, life went on. Around this time, the mines had dried up, and the tombs plundered to the last coin. Companies withdrew and the migrant workers returned home. The only people left were those colonists who had made Laputa their home.

A new age of lawlessness and banditry burned through the great plains. Sky pirate gangs would plunder goods from one city  and fly them to another, some hijacked trains, some dealt weapons. The only way to be secure in this time was to arm yourself, or hire a band of your own.
It's at the end of the cowboy era that the story of Laputa is set, the turning point from chaos and citizen rule, to an oppressive dictatiorship, dropshadowed by the threat of another oncoming storm. All of this started with the return of the young King Davey from his life on the surface, and the simultaneous visit of another, unknown rabbit.